In a course about super modern CSS
of course there has to be a lecture about browser support.
And so here it is.
So why is this even important?
Well I'm not going to tell you why browser support
is so I'm because you already know the reasons for that.
What I should tell you though over and over again
is that many of the new and modern CSS features
I showed you in this course, are highly experimental.
And right now they only work in the top modern browsers.
So this is important to keep in mind.
Now if you don't need to support older browsers
then that's perfect.
You don't need to worry about this.
But if you want to at least support some older browsers
then you should always start by checking a very handy too
called caniuse.com before using a property in production.
Now, and here comes the cool part.
Even if a browser doesn't support a property
that you really wanna use on a site,
then we can still apply it to the modern browsers and show
a different, more simple style on the older browsers.
And that's a concept called graceful degradation.
So providing a top notch experience for modern browsers
and providing an adapted reduced version to browsers
that don't understand all of these shiny new features.
And how do we do that?
Well that's exactly what I'm gonna teach you
in this lecture.
So you're gonna learn how to use feature queries in CSS
using the support's @ rule.
And with that you can use the principle of
graceful degragdation on selected properties
on your website.
Plus I'm also gonna teach you yet another brand new
CSS property called backdrop filter.
So let's get to work.
So this is how we left the website after the last lecture.
And you see that we still have this orange color here
going on and that's because we forgot to remove it
for our testing purposes in the media queries, right?
But for now let's leave it at that.
And the first thing that I wanna do is to show you
that new property that I just mentioned
called backdrop filter.
So let me show you where I want to do that.
And it's here in the popup.
So now what backdrop filter does is to apply a filter
to what's behind the selected element.
And so what I wanna do here is to add a backdrop filter
to this background here with a blur.
So basically blurring the background
instead of making it dark as we have it here.
Now the thing is that backdrop filter doesn't
currently work on Google Chrome.
So let me show that to you actually.
So let's open that popup.
And right here
adding backdrop filter.
Blur and then ten pixel.
So we have to apply a value here in order to say
how much blur we actually want.
And this one currently only works in Safari.
And so as I mentioned, not in Chrome.
And actually to work in Safari, it needs to have the
webkit prefix so let's add that.
But I'm still leaving the unprefixed version here
because in the future it may work without the prefix.
Okay?
So let me show you that this is
not working in Google Chrome.
So we reloaded the page and it's not really working.
But let me now show you the same thing in Safari.
And if you're not on a Mac, you cannot really
test this in Safari.
You could only test it on a mobile Safari
like on an iPad or an iPhone or something.
But that's not really the point here anyway.
Because what I just wanted to show you was how
the @ support rule works.
So how the feature query works, okay?
So anyway, you see here now that the background
is actually blurred, right?
So we keep scrolling and everything you see here
is blurred.
And that's because that is exactly what is behind
this element we selected and applied the backdrop filter.
Now when we have this backdrop filter,
we don't want this to be this dark.
So this background shouldn't be so dark.
So what we want then is the background to be much lighter.
So let me copy that to this place here
just for testing purposes.
So let's say we want a .3 in that case.
So looking like this.
So that looks a lot better, right?
So how do we then implement this functionality
in Safari and leave it the way it was in Google Chrome?
And that's where the feature query comes in.
All right.
So this is how it works.
@supports
and then in here we can make a test.
So basically as the browser if it supports
a certain property.
So let's copy this one in here.
So this entire thing actually,
so we cannot just put webkit backdrop filter
without this part here.
So we always to specify the value as well.
And just like in media queries, you can add some logic.
And so I'm also gonna copy this part.
Okay?
And so if this one is supported or this one,
which in fact is the same but since we have both versions,
one with the prefix and one without,
I'm just including both here.
And now we can say what we want to happen
if this property is supported.
And what we want to happen is of course
this part.
And that's actually it.
We just implemented graceful degradation
using the support's @ rule.
So a feature query.
So let's check that out in Safari.
And here we go.
So well you see something else going wrong here
but let's fix that in a second.
For now what matters here is that it works,
that the background is the light color
and not the black color that we specified up here.
So if we take a look at that in Google Chrome,
so let's reload that.
Then it will still be this dark color and not blurred
because it's not working obviously.
So perfect.
That's exactly how the feature query works.
If it's not supported then this code here
is simply not applied.
And if it is, then well of course,
this code here gets applied.
Now about this other issue that I was noticing here
in Safari.
That is probably because of the
backface visibility property.
So let's now actually take a look at the Can I Use
that I showed you before and test it with that example.
So backface visibility.
And well backface visibility
is actually a part of the CSS Transforms Module.
But here we now have a lot of information.
So let's take a look at Safari because that's the one
where it wasn't really working.
And so now here we see that Safari nine and ten
are reported to still require a prefix for the related
backface visibility property.
And it actually shows down here as well.
So this needs a prefix in order to work.
So let's add that.
So the card.
And where do we have that?
Backface visibility.
It's probably somewhere more up there
and yeah, here it is.
That would be the one.
And as always we put the prefix version
before the original version.
So webkit is for Safari and so let's now
take a look again at Safari.
And so here we go.
Now it's working just fine.
And still of course this white and blurred background
which looks really cool.
Now of course, backdrop filter can be other things.
It doesn't have to be just the blur.
So let's inspect this here.
And inspect on Safari actually only works
if you first enable that option.
And I think that's in the definitions in case
you're using a Mac.
So you have to click here,
show develop menu in the menu bar.
Then it's gonna appear up there.
And then you can make the inspect.
So again right now it only works on Safari,
but in the future, I'm sure it will come to Google Chrome
as well and all the other browsers.
And so even if you don't have Safari installed
on your computer right now, it's still good to learn this
even at this point.
So we can add something else here like brightness.
So remember we used filters before,
but the difference was that the filter was applied
to the element itself while in this case
it's just applied to the element that's behind.
So brightness for example let's say 200% here or something.
And then the background will become really bright.
You see it here in these colors.
Or you can make it dark as well, like 20%.
And then it becomes really dark.
We can use something crazy like invert for example.
And it will invert all the colors
that is behind the element so it looks crazy like this.
I don't know when that will ever be useful,
but it still exists.
So there's a lot of different values
for the backdrop filter.
So with sepia here it would look like this.
So the sepia color is applied to the back
and yeah if you wanna experiment more with this
then feel free to do that now.
So taking now a look at the rest of the webpage.
I think that everything is working just fine here.
I don't really have an older version of Safari to test,
but at least in this version everything is going just fine.
What I do have though is an older version of Firefox.
And so let's open that.
Firefox.
And it actually says here, well in Portuguese,
that there is a new version available, 55.
But I don't want to do that right now
because I actually want this older version.
So let's copy the URL here to Safari.
And again you'll see our orange version.
And now actually in Safari, it wasn't orange.
So something wrong was going on there.
Let's open that up again.
So you see that it's green here
and that shouldn't be like that
because in Safari it is orange which means
that it's the large hero image.
Remember from the last lecture.
And then in Chrome it's also that,
but in Safari right now, it's not.
And that means that something wrong is going on here
and so we should fix that.
And the problem is actually in here, in this media query.
So Safari doesn't support this part here.
So that's something that I should have done
in last lecture where we talked about responsive images
in CSS, but I didn't really think of it
and so I'm doing it now.
So it's really important that we do this
because otherwise this entire logic here
is not going to work on Safari.
Neither the desktop version nor the mobile version.
Which is really important because most people
use Safari on their iPhones or their iPads.
So we have to add another line here.
So just copy this one.
Right back here again.
All right.
So that's the part here that doesn't work in Safari.
But we have something that we can use instead of this
and which does work in Safari and that is called
webkit min device
pixel ratio, should be two.
So that's a big property.
So basically what this means is that the pixel ratio
of the device should be at least two.
And what this two means is basically the two X
that I've been explaining to you.
So if the screen is at least two X
because there's also three X or maybe even more,
but anyway if it's at least two X which is really
the same as having this resolution here at least.
Well then this code here should apply.
And so we had two conditions here
with or and now we have three.
So if this one happens or if this one happens
which it's only gonna happen on Safari,
and now the comma.
Or if the min width is 125,
then apply the bigger hero image.
So let's take a look at that now in Safari.
And voila.
Now it works.
Okay.
Let's decrease that and so disappears
at 600 pixels.
Okay.
So now we're ready to put it back
at the primary green color.
And so now it should work just as intended.
So close it and let's get back to
the older version of Firefox.
And what you see here right away
is that the clip path that we've been using
is not really working here.
And it's not working here.
It's not working down here.
And it's also not working here.
And here it's actually causing a major problem.
So in all the places where we used the clip path property
it's not really working.
So let me fix that right here in the header.
And actually there's not much to fix
but still just to show you how we can do it,
I'm gonna do some changes here anyway.
So let's close all of this.
The card as well and then back to the header.
So what do we want to happen with the header
when clip path is not supported?
Well I would say that in this case the entire header
doesn't have to be all of this height.
It could be a lot smaller.
So let's write a feature query here.
So supports
and then we need to clip path property.
And again we actually need to specify
a value for the property.
So polygon and now it doesn't really matter
what we put here.
It's really completely irrelevant.
We just need to put anything.
So we just put a zero zero coordinate.
Just anything, it doesn't really matter.
And then or, and we want the same thing here
with the webkit prefix just as I did before.
So webkit clip path.
So and if this is supported,
what do we want to happen?
Well of course this here.
So the clip path property will then be applied
and only in that case we want the height of 95
as we had in the beginning.
And if it's not the case then let's just put like 85.
And so that's better so the user knows
that the page actually continues after this hero section.
So let's take a look at that now.
And it actually already worked.
So you see that it's now smaller here
and then down there, the webpage continues.
And if you put this even smaller,
like 80 view H then you would see,
well it would be maybe a bit too much,
but you get my point anyway, right?
So this works.
And that's what we really want to prove.
Just to show you that in Safari here,
even if we reload this, it still works
the exact same way as before.
So clip path is supported and then all of this code
here gets applied and the height of 95
overrides the height of 85 obviously.
Now what was causing greater problems in Safari
was actually down here.
So let's just come up with a quick fix for that.
So the test that we're gonna write
is basically the same as this.
And then it is in the story component.
And so what element is that actually
which it causes us the problem?
And it's this one here.
It's the shape, right?
So let's include our feature query right here.
And of course we don't want this to happen,
but what we want to happen is of course here this clip path.
And so we remove it from there and put it here.
And so only if it's supported it gets applied
and also only in this case, it needs to be this big
because as you saw that image was way too big.
So let's take a look at that now.
And well now it actually looks the same and I believe I know
why this is happening.
Because actually it's the image that's causing the problem.
So even if the shape has this 50 rem, height or width,
the image that's in there still overlaps this element.
So what we can do here is to say overflow
hidden.
So let's take a look at that now.
And actually we can remove this part from here.
And all right.
So that's better, right
so let me explain that again.
So before we had this huge image here.
So inspect the element.
This is all in Portuguese here now
but that shouldn't be a big problem.
So story shape.
And so yeah, that was the problem.
And so the overflow hidden here, what it does
it basically it cuts out the part of the image
which is overflowing which is bigger than this element.
Because you see this element has only this size.
So inside of these blue lines.
But the image as I see was a lot bigger.
But if you use overflow hidden,
then that hides that outside part.
Now what you also see here is that the
shape outside property is not known to Safari.
So of course it's also not being applied here
which was the reason why we actually used this clip path
here and all of that stuff in the first place, right?
So we can also put that one here in the feature query.
Doesn't really change the functionality
but at least then Firefox is not trying to understand
what's going on here.
Now just to make this round
we can try border radius
of 50%.
And so now it's actually also round.
So it looks actually similar
to the way that it looked before.
The only difference is that now it's not flowing here
on this round side here outside of that circle.
And so what we need to do in here is border radius
and none.
So if the clip path is actually supported
then that border radius shouldn't be 50%.
It shouldn't simply exist.
So let's take a look at that now in Google Chrome.
After reloading.
And so it looks still fine in here.
Of course the text is flowing around that
and so yeah.
Everything's good here.
Everything is good on this older version of Firefox.
So you still see some difference like for example
this here is showing while on Google Chrome it's not.
But that's not a problem.
It doesn't make any difference.
So everything still works the same.
This red border here is just a default functionality
of Firefox when a field is not correct,
but that's not a problem.
And so yeah, it works
at least in this version of Firefox.
So let me close that one as well.
And now we could of course continue doing that
for all the different properties that may not
be really well supported by the older browsers.
So for example we could take a look at
the one that we used here.
The background clip property here that we used.
So maybe that one is also not supported on some of the
not so modern browsers and so you could check for that.
And then simply make the text for example just green if
background clip is not supported.
Right now I don't have any other browsers here to test
and so I'm not going to do that.
But once again such as I've been doing in this section now
is that I'm gonna leave that as challenge for you.
So now armed with this knowledge about the feature queries
and the Can I Use tool here which is really, really useful,
you can now go ahead and take a look at these
modern features that I showed you and then try
to implement a graceful degradations for all the browsers
for each of these properties.
All right this was just another really fun lecture.
Really important as well with the feature queries
and also a really great new property that I showed you
which allows for this really cool background blur.
And I'm sure that you can have a lot of ideas
on where to implement and use that one.
So I hope that you take that challenge now,
implement some more feature queries
and then I see you in the next lecture.